Hey, Sheena.
Hey, how's it going?
Hey, it's going really well.
Looking forward to doing a show together.
Thanks for everyone who's here on the live stream
and watching that later.
And with that, Sheena, welcome to Talk Bythonomy.
Yeah, thanks so much.
Happy to be here.
Yeah, I'm happy to have you here.
We've got an awesome topic queued up,
one that I just, I don't know if I'll ever get tired
of coming back to this
because I'm just such a fan of simplicity
and getting stuff done and not like,
let's see how many layers of things we can pile on.
And by that, I mean, HTMX as a success story
for going from a whole bunch of front end stuff,
a bunch of different multi, multiple apps,
you know, JavaScript front end,
Django back end talking to each other,
but kind of being separate as well.
And just switching to HTMX.
And you wrote up a really cool essay on this
that we're going to dive into.
So, and share your experience.
Yeah, it was a pretty fantastic experience overall.
I was really surprised by HTMX
when I came across it the first time
because there are so many fashionable front end
libraries and frameworks.
So when I heard about it,
I was like, oh, it's another one of those, whatever.
And then I went to a Django con, I think it was 2022.
And I saw a talk from Chris May, who's in the audience.
And that's got me excited about it.
And yeah, that's kind of when my whole story started.
So, yeah.
So what I had been doing before was working with,
so I had this team and we were building a thing
and we had a React front end.
So on the front, and that's a normal thing.
Like if you wanted a, like a modern front end application,
you'd use something like React or Vue
or one of the many competitors.
And then on the back end, we had Django.
And I think that's like a fairly normal,
fairly accepted way to do things
or it has been for a long time.
But I think it's like, I think it's a little faulty.
I think that front end web development
has been in a little bit of a complexity death spiral
for the last little while.
And like sometimes it's useful,
sometimes it's really helpful,
but like for some things you need certain tools
in the front end, I think.
But yeah, I think it's,
things have been going in the complexity
for a direction for a long time
and HTML solves a lot of problems.
All right, well, you think back,
you know, think back to the jQuery days.
How did you use jQuery?
You included a CDN or if you're wild,
you might download it and include it
in your own static content.
And then you just started using it, right?
And just layers and layers
have just been building
and JavaScript of 2024 era
looks nothing like 10 years ago,
15 years ago, JavaScript.
Yeah.
I would say it's one of the more complicated
programming environments,
you know, compared to something like C++, right?
Because there's so many steps in there,
so many implicit linkings and stuff.
Yeah, there's a lot of dark magic under the hood.
It's very hard to know what's going on.
And I think, like, one of the challenges
is that a lot of people used to get into web dev
as their gateway drug to programming.
Like, they'd start off with web dev
and then branch out from there.
But now web dev is like this magic,
weird box with so many layers.
And I think it's sort of messed a lot of people up.
It's a challenge to get started
in the way that people used to get started.
And it's like the barrier to, I don't know,
entry-level programmers used to need to be here
and now it's here.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And it does a lot of tricky things
to the ecosystem as a whole.
But yeah, like, all the build steps,
all the magic things that happen under the hood
and the fact that you have to, like,
tasks switch between completely different applications
and completely different, like, ways of thinking.
Like, so for me, I've always loved Django.
It's so good.
So with the thing that I was building,
I went to Django because I needed to build a thing
really, really fast.
And so my efficiency was important.
And then it was like, I need a good front end.
And React was a clear choice at the time.
But it means, like, switching, like,
for me to work on this thing,
I need to keep holding the Django application
and the React application in my head
and how they talk.
And it's not just React.
It's like Redux and Saga and Side Effects
and asynchronous goodies.
And then on the Django side, it's all of that.
And Django is, I think, much simpler
to get your head around than React, actually.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's a tricky thing.
Yeah, it definitely is a tricky thing.
And one thing I would just like to put out early
before we get too much mail is,
this is not necessarily a hate on JavaScript sort of thing.
There are people in the Node space
that are super fans of HTMX.
And I think what is not obvious
about the benefits of HTMX,
as we get into it,
we'll talk about some of these things.
But you were just touching on that,
like you've got this React front end.
It has its own state.
It also has its own capability.
So it's running on the client side,
so it can't talk to file systems or the database.
It can only talk to APIs.
On the other hand, you've got the Django app,
which probably is not talking to APIs,
but talks to the database,
talks to the server levels things.
And you've got to,
as you're working on this app,
think, okay, I'm in this context.
That means no database.
I'm in this context.
That means primarily just database, right?
And it's just,
you have these two worlds.
And if you could say,
could I just write in one of them?
And the JavaScript people might even pick,
like, I just want to stay in JavaScript,
but always Node.
Or always at least,
you'll pick one of the styles of programming
and not just constantly switch back and forth
between these.
You have browser capabilities.
You have server capabilities.
You have browser information.
Like, just,
that is just not productive.
It's not the best, right?
And so as much as you can avoid that,
and as we'll see,
HTMX is super easy about keeping it in one place, right?
So that's,
I think that's one of the big things
that people should be honing in on
as we talk about this.
What do you think?
Oh, yeah, definitely.
Yeah, if I came across as hating on JavaScript,
I dig JavaScript,
and I use it a lot where it's needed.
I think it is a fantastic tool in the toolbox
that I'm on sides with you,
that it's just the complexity
of switching contexts all the time.
It slows you down,
and it's a lot to keep in your head.
And so it's like,
for me,
when I was working on this application
and needing to switch contexts all the time,
it's like,
like,
you can't just make a thing.
Like,
you have to,
like,
do the dance to make the thing.
it's like...
Instead of four different
chained file watchers
to do their things and stuff, right?
And so it just,
like,
adds a little bit of a,
you're slower than you would like to be.
There's,
like,
more tedium than there should be.
It would be nice
if you could just,
like,
build the thing quickly
in a simple way,
and it just works
and it's beautiful.
And HTMX kind of allows that
along with other tools.
Yeah.
So for me,
that context switching
was,
like,
a painful,
painful thing.
And for the team
I was working with as well,
like,
I had a bunch of juniors
on my team
and it was so hard
to get them productive
because it was like,
okay,
do you want to be productive
on the back end
or do you want to be productive
on the front end?
And then on the front end,
like,
that was complicated
because of the,
again,
React,
Redux,
Redux saga.
So they were all
just,
like,
suffering.
And to put real features
into place,
you've got to do
a vertical slice,
right,
which hits most,
if not all.
You know,
you probably have to touch
the React front end.
Yeah.
You probably need
some new tiny bits
of UI design,
so CSS
and maybe some
SaaS build step there
and,
you know,
like,
then you're doing
the server side bits
and then you're doing
a database migration
and it's just,
like,
it's end to end,
right?
Yeah.
And for some people,
it's not even reasonable
to expect them
to have all of those skills,
those end to end skills.
And then it's like,
you have to make
your team complicated.
You have to have
a back end team
and a front end team
and they need to
now integrate
with each other.
And so,
like,
the team
resembles the team stack.
Yeah.
Yeah,
that's interesting.
we have a group
for this later,
a group for that later.
And,
you know,
look,
if you're a huge company,
maybe that actually
makes tons of sense.
Maybe.
I'm not saying it does,
but it may.
But when you're a small company,
it just doesn't,
right?
No,
no.
And,
yeah,
like,
I think when you're
building something,
you do need to think
about the team
that's going to be building it.
Their skills right now,
the skills that they're
going to have in the future,
the skills that you're
going to need to pull
into the team
in the future.
and so it's,
I don't know
if it makes sense
to,
well,
in my context,
it didn't make sense
to split up the team.
If I had the tools
to allow everybody
to be in the same place
from the beginning,
that would have been
freaking fantastic.
Yeah.
Yeah,
absolutely.
That would be awesome.
So let's talk about,
let's talk a bit
about HTMX.
So we,
we said,
hey,
we've been talking
about this
in sort of broad terms,
but let's be a little
bit specific
and maybe you could
tell us,
what is this HTMX
and why is it,
why is it not just
a different flavor
of React or Vue
or something?
And then maybe we could
talk through a few examples.
Okay,
cool.
So the way I explain
HTMX to myself
is that,
like,
imagine looking at HTML.
HTML is with us.
It's going to be
with us forever.
Maybe not forever,
but for a very long time.
What,
what if we,
there have been many,
there have been many attempts
to replace it
and they were all bad.
Yeah.
So it's probably going
to stick around
for the foreseeable future
and it's everywhere.
And what if we could
just augment it slightly
so that it could do
what we needed it to do
in the modern web?
Like we,
like since HTML
got invented,
like it's quite a simple tool,
but now we need to do
all this extra stuff
because people expect
all sorts of,
like,
interactivity
in the user interfaces.
They expect
asynchronous workloads
and things like that.
And what if
HTML could do that?
And it can do that.
And it's not actually
that hard
to make it do that.
You just need to
add a few extra attributes.
And so what HTML is,
is a really,
really small
JavaScript library.
And you just include it
as a script tag
in your page
and then it's there
and it's available
and it's installed
just like the old,
the good old days
of jQuery.
Yeah,
you could just go back
and throw it in a CDN
if you wanted,
couldn't you?
That's right.
I hadn't really thought about it.
And then from there,
you just have
these extra attributes
on your HTML tags
that do different things.
So, for example,
like,
so HTML has a lot
of different stuff,
but if you were to,
like,
80, 20 years
and look at the parts
that are the most used,
then basically
the stuff you'll use
the most are,
like,
tying into events,
click event handlers
or whatnot.
And then
when you click
on the thing
or whatever,
it'll send
a request
to a backend
and the backend
responds
with an HTML fragment.
And then you swap
that fragment
into your page
somewhere.
So, like,
where,
so if you were
to look at
the HTML documentation,
the hello world
of HTML
is a button
and the button says,
has the attributes
HX post clicked.
So,
it's saying,
like,
when you click
on the button,
then send
a post request
to a URL
that's,
like,
forward slash click.
So,
you can decide
where,
like,
what HTTP method
you're using
and where it's going
and what event
you're tying into.
and then when the response
arrives,
then you do something
with it.
And the response
is HTML.
It's not a JSON response
that you then need
to, like,
turn into HTML.
It's plain old
normal HTML.
So,
it's super simple
to write.
And then you
take that HTML
and you put it
somewhere on the page.
So,
maybe you swap
the current button
that you just clicked
with the HTML
that was returned.
or maybe you take it
and you put it,
like,
at the end
of another element.
You can append stuff.
You can pre-pen stuff.
You can replace
entire elements.
the internals of elements.
And that little pattern
is actually
really,
really powerful.
So,
and you can tie
into all sorts
of different events.
So,
there's, like,
interacting
with individual elements,
like a click
or a form submission.
You can say,
like,
onload
or, like,
onscroll
or all sorts
of different things.
So,
events.
Yeah.
Yeah,
absolutely.
So,
one of the motivations
that Carl,
Carson Gross
puts there
is,
why should
A and form
only be able
to make HTTP requests?
Why should you
only be able
to click
and have click
and submit events
trigger them,
right?
And all these things,
you know?
So,
it's kind of,
like,
just extending
some of these
niche features.
Like,
you can click a button
but not an image
in HTML
to,
to all the pieces.
And then,
like you said,
exchanging fragments
of HTML,
right?
Like,
just instead
of sending JSON
back and then
having the client
side turn
to end HTML,
just do it
on the server
and stick it
where it goes,
right?
Basically,
that's it.
Yeah.
So,
it's dead simple
to code as well,
which is fantastic.
So,
it's a simple,
but you're just
server-side rendering
some HTML
HTML,
like we used
to a long time
ago.
So,
it feels very
familiar to people
who got into
webdev a long
time ago.
And the code
itself is very,
very easy to write.
Like,
initially,
you might,
like,
scratch your head,
it's unfamiliar,
but give yourself
a couple of hours
and it'll start
to feel familiar.
It's,
yeah,
it's lovely
to work in.
Yeah,
I would also
encourage people
that want to get
started with this
and play with this.
The examples
that they have
on the website
are pretty
comprehensive,
right?
If you scroll
through,
I don't know
how many there
are,
maybe 20 or so.
Yeah,
more than that.
It's a lot.
Yeah,
perhaps,
yeah,
there's a lot
of them here.
And then,
so,
if you go into
each one of them,
it'll show you
basically some
interesting things.
So,
if you go to
the first one
and click to edit,
it says,
here's a bit
of static HTML,
like a label
and a div
and then a button
that says,
click to edit.
And all it has
is HX get
and it says,
edit this thing,
right?
And,
when you go
and click it,
like,
there's a little
example at the bottom.
You click it,
that's all fun.
But,
if you open up
the bottom,
there's like a little
history of interactions
and,
like,
I don't know
what you call it,
but,
like a web history
that shows
what's transferred.
so,
when you clicked edit,
here's what the response was
and it shows
the HTML fragment,
which then itself
is a new,
has HX events
and then when it saves it,
it goes back
to the static
and so on.
And I think
it's a really
pretty easy way
to get a sense
of what it is.
What do you think?
Yeah,
yeah.
I think so.
Those examples
are great.
I think,
like,
one thing
that I like
to do
is use HTMX
and a thing
called Alpine JS
together.
So,
yeah,
so,
so for me,
HTMX is great
for when the data
needs to be passed
back and forth,
but,
like,
for something like this,
I'd probably use
something like Alpine
just to say,
like,
show and hide,
hide the form.
Yeah,
it's also fantastic.
So,
you don't,
like,
strictly need it,
I suppose,
but it does save
on,
like,
some back and forth
and it does make
things a little bit
more,
like,
in one place,
a little bit more,
like,
locality of behaviors
are useful.
Yeah.
So,
now we're looking
at Alpine JS
in the world
and this is cool
because it also,
it's like HTMX
in that it just adds
a couple of extra
attributes to your
HTML tags
and the 80-20
of this is that
you can define
variables
and those variables
are,
like,
this,
like a state
and they are
defined within the scope
of the place
where you defined it.
So,
if you have,
like,
div x data
equals
open false
as a JSON object
inside within the scope
of this div
we have this thing
called open
and its initial value
is false
and then you can
do things like
click on a button
to change open
to true
or to toggle
open.
So,
you can have it,
like,
show form
true or false
and then you can say,
then you can,
like,
say,
you know,
it says span
extra equals open.
So,
we only show that
under certain circumstances
and you can also have,
like,
not open
or you can have,
like,
it speaks JavaScript
so you can do
some interesting things
in there as well.
Yeah,
this is pretty interesting.
This is,
yeah,
this is something
I have not really used
but I do hear
Alpine and HTMX
mentioned together frequently.
They do have a similar vibe.
Yeah,
yeah,
they do.
They do.
Yeah,
I've enjoyed it a lot.
I tend to just use it
for, like,
small,
simple things
but those small,
simple things add up.
So,
for example,
if you have menus
that open and close
and things like that,
you might,
you might want to use
something like this.
Yeah,
or
event handling,
like,
if you click this button
and change the state to this
and then it triggers
the binding
to open and close sections
and so on,
yeah?
Yeah,
yeah,
yeah.
Okay.
Interesting.
Yeah,
you know,
one example
that I can give
from over
that stuff
that I'm working on
is I'm definitely
using HTMX
over at Talk Python
training,
right,
for our courses
and I added this
little
tag cloud
is not quite a cloud
but a bunch of different
things you can explore.
So,
when you load this page,
actually,
one of the things
that's really challenging
is it has the price
in your local currency
so it figures out
where is your IP,
where do you live
and that currency,
the prices of those things,
you know,
outside of the US
change a lot
and it's super,
sometimes it can be
really slow
to figure out
what the price
of every course is
if there's sales
and you're in this country
and that applies
in this way.
So,
all these little
prices are all
calculated with
HTMX.
So,
it loads normally
without the prices
then probably
by the time
you get to it
the prices are already
there automatically
and then
as you click around
you get,
this is all,
like,
as you click
these little tags
up here,
you can even click
on the HTMX tag
and see you have
three HTMX courses,
right,
with Flask,
Django,
and one that just
kind of uses it.
But all of this stuff,
there's no JavaScript
on this page,
at least not doing
any of it.
It's all just
HTMX,
right?
Yeah,
that's great.
Beautifully good.
It's so good.
So,
yeah,
I've certainly
enjoyed working
with it.
But,
you know,
let's talk a bit
about your
right of,
like,
let's talk about,
you know,
spend the rest of
the time on
your story,
how you started
using HTMX.
I mean,
you've given us
some of the senses,
but let's talk
about the app
that you were
building,
right?
You had this team
of fairly junior
developers.
What's the story?
At the time,
I was working
for a nonprofit
training provider
in South Africa,
and we used
to have everybody
on premises
in this place
called Jeffy's Town,
which is really
a dodgy place.
And it was great.
It was a lot
of fun.
But then COVID
happened,
and so we had
to figure out
how to support
everybody remotely.
And so,
it built an LMS.
So,
initially,
we, like,
looked around
that LMS means
learner management
system.
We had a whole
lot of learners.
We had,
I think there were
about 150 at the time,
and we needed
to figure out,
like,
how to support
them from home.
We couldn't just
be like,
come back next year
because the,
like,
partially we couldn't
let them down,
partially the funding
model wouldn't work
and all sorts of things.
Yeah,
it was an insane time.
It's kind of
normalized in our
history because
we've moved past it,
but we've got to
remember,
that was a disturbing
time.
Yeah,
yeah.
Like,
so many people
have horror stories
from then.
I was like,
this was hard.
It was,
like,
super,
super stressful.
But in the end,
we ended up
with this cool thing.
So,
yeah,
so,
like,
a lot of LMSs
exist.
You can get one
off the shelf,
and they're
a lot like
very clever textbooks
that track learners
over time.
But for us,
we're training,
we're training software
developers.
And so,
we wanted something
more than a textbook.
We wanted to train
professionals.
And so,
we ended up building
this thing.
From the learner's
perspective,
it was a Kanban board.
And then,
they could move cards
around on the board
to do different things.
They could,
like,
start a project
and then we'd
create a repo
for them
and make,
add them as a collaborator
and protect the main
branch and all of that
good stuff.
And then,
we could get them
to review each other
and we could track
all that and display
it in the front end.
Right.
Try to teach them
Git and GitHub
and PRs
and all that.
Yeah.
Yeah,
it was so cool.
Like,
by the time they got
to work,
like,
they were always
very nervous
getting into their
first job
and then they'd say,
like,
this is familiar.
Like,
we know how this works.
I'm teaching people
stuff here,
actually.
That's weird.
Yeah,
it was great.
it was cool.
Yeah,
so built this thing out
and managed to keep
training the people
and it worked
and then it was like,
okay,
this thing is pretty
rough around the edges
because we built it
in self-defense
and,
like,
we're like,
hey,
shit,
I hope this works.
So,
we needed to
build more on it
and we were hiring
a lot of junior developers
because we were training,
like,
very,
very beginner stuff
and,
so,
if you want to teach
a person what a return
statement is
or what a loop is
or anything like that,
then you don't need
a senior developer
or,
like,
a senior lecturer.
You need somebody
who understands
what a loop is
and what a return
statement is.
So,
we had,
like,
all these juniors
running around,
like,
helping out
and they needed
to build stuff
with their own growth
as well
and their own,
like,
if they don't build stuff
then they're built
and it's sad.
So,
yeah,
so,
so we're trying
to get them productive
on the stack
but it was
very,
very difficult.
So,
for me,
I'd been working
on React applications
and I've been working
on Django
and so,
for me,
it was fine.
I could just,
like,
I could keep
the whole thing
in my head
but,
yeah,
it was just,
it was just really
tough for them.
So,
I think there is
a little bit of an art
to making a junior
developer productive
but,
like,
I just was not
figuring it out.
So,
I tried this for a while
and then one day
I went to DjangoCon US
and I saw Chris May's talk
that spoke about
HTMX
and I was just,
like,
maybe this is worth a try.
So,
I was,
like,
okay,
I'm just going to
proof of concept it
and see if I can build
the weirdest parts
of our application
in HTMX.
Yeah.
That's awesome.
Because,
because you're,
I guess the question is,
if you're asking,
will it work,
you're like,
this is the most
crazy interactive bit
and if it can do this,
the other stuff is easy.
Like,
switching from logged in
to log out
or whatever is like,
yeah,
okay,
that's,
that's nothing,
right?
Yeah,
yeah,
yeah.
So,
most of our functionality
was around this
Kanban board.
So,
I was like,
all right,
let me just,
make some cards
and make some columns
and see if I can
shift stuff around
and it all worked out
really well
and it wasn't,
it wasn't super hard.
Like,
I think one of the,
one of the challenges
with HTMX
is that it's very easy
to build like spaghetti
templates
because you have
like the main template
and all these partials
and you need to,
and then all these URLs
that are pointing
to the partials.
So,
so it is possible
to get yourself
in a bit of a tangle there.
So,
you need to arrange
things nicely.
but yeah,
the process
was so smooth
that I was like,
let me try this.
So,
our application
was this Django app
on the back
exposing a bunch
of APIs
with Django REST framework
and so
the idea
was to just
instead of,
like,
we'd leave the React
app as is
and we'd keep on working.
Meanwhile,
we'd,
we'd just build out
some like perfectly
normal Django views
to do the HTMX stuff
and then we could
move everybody
over to the new,
the new application.
So,
the new front end
was part of the original
Django app.
So,
we didn't rebuild
absolutely everything.
We just rebuilt that part
and generally speaking,
if somebody suggests
rebuilding a thing,
I worry,
like usually it's a bad idea.
Usually it's like,
yeah,
a pull or something.
Yes,
I've had to stop myself
many times.
Do you know that David,
is it David Be,
Be,
not Beasley,
Beady,
if you look for,
there's a great song
that says,
we're going,
going to do
the big rewrite
on YouTube.
Let's see.
Yeah,
there we go.
This,
this is so good.
So,
if,
I think,
oh,
it's got,
it's got some ad.
Dylan Beady it is.
Yeah,
check,
I'll put a link in here.
It's got some,
some amazing parodies
and one's,
it's a six and a half minute
parody of American Pie.
We're going to do
the big rewrite
and it's,
it's glorious.
So,
I'll link it,
but you should be afraid,
right?
This is something that like,
we're going to rewrite it
and basically the song is,
here's the eight version,
the eight different languages
that thing's previously
been written in,
you know?
Yeah.
It's,
when something's working
sometimes,
even if it's not perfect.
Yeah.
And it was also like,
rewriting it in order to optimize
for this team
that was mostly juniors.
And so I was like,
is this like,
is this me being crazy?
Like,
there was a lot of,
um,
yeah,
I was,
I was very unsure.
Um,
but then,
so I tried everything out
and it,
and it worked
and it was fun
and it was like,
like straightforward to write
for this like small thing.
Um,
and then I was like,
let me see how the team
works on this.
So I gave them
a bunch of little,
um,
tasks to do.
I was like,
implement this,
try that,
da, da, da.
and everybody
was productive.
So I felt like,
how did they receive it
when you,
when you introduced
this idea to them
after they'd been living
in react and
redux and all these things?
I think for them,
they were happy with it.
I think at first
a little bit skeptical,
but then once they
started going,
like I,
I did get feedback
from them.
I make a point
of getting feedback
from them
and they were like,
this HTMX thing
is way better.
So that's nice.
Wait,
what's the trick?
Why does this work?
Yeah.
Um,
so they went with it,
um,
but,
and then they succeeded
and they were happy
and productive,
which is great.
And like,
even people who needed
like way too much
of my support,
like people who I had
to like really sit
with and pair with
like just to do
like anything,
they were suddenly
able to do stuff
that was meaningful.
So I think for me,
that's one of the things
that's so exciting
about HTMX.
It's like,
I've been working
and training for so long
and I've been,
like fighting the fight
of like getting
junior developers
job ready for so long
that,
um,
like I'm,
I'm aware of many problems
in the tech education ecosystem
and the junior hiring ecosystem
and like the fact
that entry level positions
are like too hard
for people,
like it's a problem.
and now we have tools
that make web developments
approachable again.
So like I'm singing
this HTMX song
because I think
it's going to change
the industry
in,
in some pretty big ways.
I think it's already
making waves,
but I'd like them
to happen faster
and bigger.
Yeah.
I think it will as well
and,
you know,
I think the current
web frameworks
are really good
and work really well
with it,
but I wonder if,
I wouldn't be surprised
to see kind of like
FastAPI came along
and just said,
Pydantic is the essence
of this thing
and Pydantic changed
a lot of data exchange,
a lot of data validation.
I'd wonder if some framework
comes along
and just says,
HTMX is just
ground up part
of this thing.
All right.
That'd be interesting
to see what that looks like.
It would be interesting.
I think
there are definitely
useful patterns
and how to,
how to do different things
and people are building
tools around it
or tools that complements
it in useful ways.
So we spoke about Alpine JS.
There's another thing
called template partials
from the other Carlton,
Carlton Gibson.
And he,
and that's really,
really great.
Yeah.
Yeah,
absolutely.
This is,
this is something like this
is super needed
to make the code go from like,
all right,
we can do this too.
Oh,
that's nice.
Yeah.
That's super nice.
This really unspaghetti-fies it,
which is fantastic.
Like this is one of my favorites
at the moment.
Yeah.
This is awesome.
I have one
that I created
for Jinja card,
Jinja,
Jinja partials
and also a chameleon one.
So since I'm,
I wasn't using
for that,
that course example,
this is actually chameleon.
So I'll use the chameleon partials,
but you know,
something like this
is required in,
you know,
Carlton does great work,
right?
Yeah.
Known for it.
So you're using this
as part of,
as part of your,
your site.
So not that original site.
I only heard about this later on,
but now I use it
on everything.
Yeah.
I'm on all of my HTMX things.
I use this.
Right.
Tell the Django people,
what does this do?
Like why,
why do you need Django template partials
instead of just Django templates?
So it's just about
organizing your code
in a way that's a bit cleaner.
So if you think about
how you would render templates
from your different views,
if you had like a main page
and then that page
had a bunch of HTMX things happening
that made calls to the backend
to different views
and those different views
use different templates,
then even though
all those templates
are associated with the same page,
it kind of ends up being
a bit of a mess.
You've got like a lot of different
like partial templates
so you need a cool
naming convention for that.
Like is this a page?
Is this a template?
And it gets just a little bit
a little bit messy.
And you need to switch
between files all the time
to see what things
are associated with each other.
Let's say you've got
like five pages
and each of them
have like five different
partials associated with them.
Suddenly it's a lot of files
and you need to organize
things somehow.
So what Django template partials
does is it allows
you to like,
like say you've got
like a main page file
to-do list, right?
You could define
a partial template
for a to-do item
within that same file
and it won't get rendered
until you say
render this thing.
So you can like
when you render
your template
for the first time,
you can just say,
okay,
loop over the to-do items
and use this partial
in place
and render the things
and that's great.
But then the other thing
that you can do
is that you can
like in a view,
you can choose
to render a template
but you can choose
to render a partial
within that template
as well.
And so let's say
you've got
like a little form
that says
add a new to-do list item.
then you'd submit
that form
and then the view
would look
for the partial
within the page
that you care about
and it'll render that.
And so it just ends up
being that
like everything
is tidy and together
and it makes sense
because like
the to-do list items
are only used
in this page
and those items
are only used
in that page.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
One of the big challenges
that you'll quickly
run into
with this style,
this HTMX
partial exchange style
is when you show
the page originally
you want just
the server rendered version
which includes
let's say
your to-do items.
So you need
the HTML
for the to-do items
in the main page
but then when you
make changes to it
you need a little
fragment of that
same HTML
to put a new
to-do item in there
or to edit one
or something.
and if you're not careful
well then you have
multiple copies
of those laying around
and somebody updates
the design for one
and then it doesn't
update the partial one
that you wrote
which is a copy
it's not pretty.
So finding a way
for reuse
like this Django
templates partials
it's pretty required
I think
if you're going
to stay sane.
It's like
functions are required
to write code
you know
it's pretty much
like that right?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I think so.
I think so.
Like you can get away
with just using
like lots of files
and you could
keep things dry
with lots of files
but it gets
like it's very spaghetti
unless you put
a lot of effort
into organizing it
and then keeping
it organized
because people
make PRs
do like all sorts
of weird things.
So yeah,
yeah,
it's like
it's not
it's not good
to have to
like monitor
that everything's organized
it would be better
if it was just
done by default.
Yeah, exactly.
So the default behavior
is correct.
Yeah.
So grab a file
a library for that.
All right.
So
let's talk about
the before
and after stack.
So before
you talked about React
but tell us
all the pieces involved
and then
what does it look like
today?
Okay, cool.
so React
Redux
so Redux
was for
just state management
and then
I used Redux
Saga
for
mostly for
data fetching stuff
so that I could
handle like loading
spinners
and I could
see
like
the status
of different requests
over time
and that kind of thing.
Then
I used
material UI
because
my
like front end
make pretty skills
aren't
the strongest.
so I wanted
a component
library
that would
just work
and
that was
the
the chosen one.
Then
on the back end
it was Django
and Django REST
framework
is
is fairly well known.
Then
I used a thing
called Django Guardian
because
I needed
object level
permissions
on the different
model instances.
So
for example
so we had
this Kanban board
and there were
cards on this board
that's that people
could move around
and
different people
would have
different permission
to different cards.
So
we had things like
one learner
would be working
on a card
and then they'd
ask for a review
and then another
learner should be
able to review that
but we wouldn't
want to
let just any
learner
look at their
code
because
then it would
cause all sorts
of problems.
So it's like
okay this person
has finished
this project
so we can
add them
as a reviewer
on this card
and so we
needed to be
like pretty
particular
about like
which of our
users could
see different
things.
It wasn't
super straightforward
in that this
person can
see this.
It was like
this person
can for
these reasons.
So Django
Guardian is
really really
cool.
That's a cool
library.
Maybe people
could find
a nice use
for that one.
That's the
one that's
new to me.
That's really
nice and you
can even do
things like
when you query
a database
and you say
fetch me all
the cards
you can do
something like
fetch me all
the cards
that Bob
can see.
And so long
as it's
configured well
then it can
do that sort
of thing
which is
very, very
helpful.
Wow, that's
really cool.
So you don't
have to go
get all the
cards and
then who
have all
these different
permissions and
then construct
some query
that comes up
with it.
Yeah, very
nice.
I love it.
Yeah, super
cool.
And that
plugs into
DRF as
well.
So your
serializer
or your
viewset,
so I haven't
worked in it
in a while,
but the
query that
gets used
when you
access a
list API
endpoint,
you could
just apply
that automatically
as well.
So you don't
need to build
it in that
case either.
so it
plugs into
all of the
things.
It's a little
bit weird at
first to get
used to and
then it's
just fantastic.
Very cool.
Yeah.
And now
I'm guessing
much of the
front end
stuff is
probably not
there?
Yeah, yeah.
So the
old application
still exists
but it's
not,
like the
HTMX
based version
would just
be a
drop-in
replacement.
It's like
go to this
URL instead
kind of
thing.
Yeah.
Yeah, awesome.
Hold on,
let's see.
So I
guess now
that it's
done,
you said you
used to work
there but you
don't work
there anymore,
is that right?
Oh yeah,
not anymore,
as of a few
months ago.
Right.
So maybe,
I guess that's
recent enough
to say sort
of how is
it going now,
right?
how is it
being used?
How are
people,
you know,
is it still
going strong
as the
technology?
Yeah,
the tech
is solid.
Yeah,
so I
hope that
they're still
building on it.
There was
some weird
things happening
at the
organization
before I
left.
So yeah,
I expect,
I hope that
everything is still
going smoothly
but I haven't
been plugged
in for a
while.
Yeah,
yeah,
let's give
maybe a
quick shout
out to,
gosh,
let me try
to grab it,
give it a second.
I want to
give a quick
shout out
to this
video,
this other
DjangoCon talk.
Gosh,
why is,
I need to
sign into
my YouTube
premium on
this,
Roger.
But this
real world
SaaS product
example from
this guy
in France,
David
Gilead,
yeah,
that,
that one
you said
was a pretty
good example
if you need
like a
walkthrough case.
Yeah,
so that one
I didn't see
it live.
I saw a video
of it after
the fact
but it is
like the
ultimate
HTMX demo.
It shows,
this guy
really makes
it dance.
It's quite
an amazing
thing to see.
So,
highly recommend
that.
Yeah,
this guy
David goes
through and
says,
you know,
here's our
complex
SaaS product
and let
me walk
you through
all the
features.
I feel like
this would
be a pretty
good one.
Your article
as well
and then
this video
if you want
to say
make a case
to your
team like,
hey,
everyone,
can we
consider doing
this?
And I'm
sure right
off the bat
you'll get
some folks
say,
well,
no,
we have
to use
React
because it's
interactive.
This,
you interact
with that
part and it
changes that
part.
How are we
going to
possibly pull
that off?
It's like,
yeah,
no,
that's totally
possible.
I think
the main
arguments
people have
against it
are like
scale,
but that
argument
doesn't make
super,
a lot of
sense to
me.
I think
it might
be complexity
scale that
they're
concerned about,
but I think
things like
template partials
solve a lot
of that
problem.
And then
there's,
can it
do the
things?
And this
solves that
problem.
And then
is it
really,
really a,
is it
really so
much better
for the
team?
Is the
other
question?
Is it
just another
fashion?
Is it
just another
fad?
And that's
something that's
sometimes hard
to get
across.
And I
think that
my article
will do
a good
job of
explaining
why it's
a good
idea.
Because I
had to
explain this
to non-technical
stakeholders.
I was like,
okay,
I'm making
this crazy
decision and
this is
why.
And so I
think I've
got the
argument
down.
Go read
that article
if you need
to convince
someone.
Yeah.
But I
think the
other thing
to mention
is the
full stack
that I
moved to
in the
end.
Yeah,
so HTMX
we spoke
about,
Django we
spoke
about,
and Alpine
we spoke
about.
Now,
if you
are running
a React
front-end
or whatever,
you would
test the
front-end
in a
React-y
way,
like you
would use
tools that
are
appropriate
for that.
And so
you need
to think
about
different
ways
to
test
things.
Would
that be
like
Selenium
or something
or what
are we
talking?
So I
like
Playwright
quite a
lot.
So you
could do
it with
Selenium
but that
would be
a,
like,
it would
include
some
pain.
Playwright
is very,
very lovely
to work
with.
So it's
like Selenium
only with
all sorts
of useful
test goodies
built in.
So,
like,
you can get
it to
take videos
of your
failed
tests
and
it's
got
useful
flags
for,
like,
running
your
tests
on
different
browsers
and
you
can
keep
a trace
of
things.
It's
got
interesting
debugging
stuff
built
in
and
you
can
just
run
it
with
pytest.
So,
yeah,
Playwright
is a big
part of
it as
well.
Yeah,
Playwright
is really
nice.
You know,
one thing
that just
occurred
to me
around
the
testing
if
you've
got
a rich
JavaScript
front-end
sort of
thing,
you have
to use
something
like
Playwright
or
Selenium
where it
does a
full
browser
request
render
of the
page
to
interact
with it,
right?
And you
can also
do that
with
HTMLX,
but
a lot
of these
web
frameworks
you can
just
in your
web
test
code
you can
say
create
like
a
testing
instance
of my
server,
right,
and then
make it
do this
request
and then
see
what
the
response
came
back
without
nearly
the
same
overhead
and
because
this
stuff
all
happens
on
the
server,
I
guess
you
could
just
write
a
unit
test
against
a
fragment
response,
right?
Yeah,
you can.
So you
can write
little unit
tests that
check different
things like
that,
but since
a lot of
the interactivity
is defined
within the
HTML tags,
your unit
tests won't
be able to
cover like
fix this
and that
happens,
so that's
where
something like
playwright
will come
in.
Yeah,
you'll still
need that
to,
but maybe
less
playwright
is needed
otherwise,
is what I
was thinking.
Yeah,
definitely,
definitely.
I think one
of the
anti-patterns
I've seen
is too
much
playwright
where they're
just like,
why don't you
use playwright
for everything
and then your
tests are
ridiculously
slow and
it's like,
you could
have just,
you need to
test the
view,
there was this
function that
you wanted
to test.
Exactly,
you're not
Shakespeare,
you don't need
that much
playwright,
come on,
get focused.
Yeah,
playwright is a
call,
I definitely
recommend it,
yeah.
Yeah,
yeah,
and it plugs
into Django
really smoothly
as well,
so you don't
actually,
the playwright,
it spins up
a browser and
points it at a
running instance
of an application
in order to
test the
things,
but with
Django and
pytest,
you can use
a fixture to
spin up a
test version
of your
application,
it's kind of
like run
servers running
there in your
tests anyway,
so yeah,
it integrates
very,
very smoothly,
yeah,
makes it very
convenient.
Yeah,
absolutely.
You know,
one of the
things you wrote
a lot about,
and you
mentioned this,
but you kind
of flew past
it a little
bit,
was,
you said,
am I crazy
for optimizing
for junior
developers,
right?
On the other
hand,
on the other
optimizing for
simplicity,
even if
you're an
expert,
right,
you don't,
just because you
can do all
the steps
and all the
complexity
doesn't mean
you should
constantly be
doing those
steps,
right?
And so
I think
there's a
case for
optimizing
for simplicity
here.
What do
you think?
I completely
agree.
I mean,
if you can
just take
the cognitive
load of
developing your
app and
then make
it simple
so you can
focus on
actually solving
problems
instead of
wiring,
I suppose,
and life
gets a lot
easier.
So yeah,
simplicity
rocks.
it's
fast to
develop,
but things
like HTMX
make your
code way,
way smaller
than it would
otherwise be.
So it's not
just simple.
It's not just
that it's less
convoluted.
There's also
less of it.
And so
there's less
to test.
There's less
stuff that
can cause
bugs.
And most
of the
front-end
interactivity
is handled
by another
library that's
really well
tested.
And you're
just doing
these tiny
little things
that are
easy to
reason about.
it's
robust
and
clean.
So yeah,
I do think
it's worth
optimizing for
simplicity.
I mean,
it made
everybody more
productive,
the juniors
and me as
well.
So top
notch.
Yeah.
I'm
constantly in
pursuit of
trying to
keep things
simple.
You know,
if you go
over to the
HTMX,
I don't know
if you've
looked at
this section,
but they've
got a,
you know,
Kirsten has
this essay
section,
which,
you know,
it's not
quite a blog,
but it's
kind of a
blog.
You know,
it's not in
order,
it's in
sort of
category.
These are
all nice.
One thing
that's nice
is he has
on the
other hand,
here's a
couple of
examples why
people didn't
pick it,
right?
But he's
got a whole
section on
complexity,
very,
very bad.
Yeah.
But if
you keep
going,
there's a
bunch of
memes.
The memes are
so good,
aren't they?
They are
fantastic.
And one
of these
super,
definitely
applies.
You know,
there's one
that says
HTML plus
the back
end for
like,
you know,
it's got
this bell
curve for
the beginners,
like,
oh,
this is what
I want.
As you get
a little bit
better,
you're like,
oh,
I need
all this
complexity,
all these
layers.
and then
sort of
the Jedi
knight at
the end
is,
yeah,
HTML
on the
back
end,
right?
Going through
this path
and I think
these two
ends,
I don't
necessarily
want to
characterize
beginners
that look
like this
character
and this
meme,
but,
you know,
I think
the meme
still speaks
of us
somewhat,
right?
Yeah,
yeah,
definitely,
definitely.
Yeah,
I think
it's about
like when
I teach
people to
code,
when I teach
people like
the very
basics of
code,
and like
something I
see with
very junior
developers is
they try to
show off
and be like,
look how
fancy I can
make my
code,
I can do
all of
these
complicated
things,
and then
you get
them to
think more
like Jedi's
and say,
like,
don't waste
any moves,
like,
you wouldn't
be flailing
about,
like,
this is kind
of like
flailing.
HTML
does that
for you,
it just
lets you
like move
directly
towards your
goal,
instead of
having to
like move
around it.
Yeah.
Yeah,
it's pretty
glorious.
So,
I know
that you
do a lot
of teaching,
maybe,
you said
you work
for this
local company
that you
did the
Kanban board
app for
and so on,
and now
what are you
up to?
So,
still teaching,
just differently.
So,
yeah,
it was
really cool
working there.
I was there
for a long
time,
like five
years in
total,
which is
really long
and it
was super
successful.
So,
like,
since 2020,
basically
everybody who
passed our
courses ended
up getting
good jobs,
like,
very,
very close
to 100%
of the people
who passed
and the people
who didn't
pass is,
like,
actually kind
of small,
like 7%,
and there's
lots of
reasons for
that.
But,
yeah,
I learned
a ton
from being
there.
Was that a
person?
That was a
person pre-COVID,
right?
Yeah,
so post-COVID,
we actually got
way,
way better
because we
had better
monitoring of
individuals and
we could do
things like
track people's
cards on
their board,
moving around,
and then from
that you can
say,
like,
oh,
this piece
of content
is dodgy.
it would
give us
as educators
a lot of
feedback about
what we were
doing because
if a person
was stuck
and you're
like,
I explained
this thing
great,
and then
they're still
stuck,
you're like,
I didn't
explain this
thing great,
and so,
like,
the way
the teaching
mechanism
was built
was,
like,
really good
for the
students,
but,
like,
if we as
educators
didn't do
a good job
on something,
we'd know
about it
and we'd
have to
fix it,
and I
think that
honed the
craft quite
a lot.
So,
learned a
bunch
there,
now what
I'm doing
is I want
to spread
those skills
in different
ways.
So,
there's a
whole lot
to what
I'm doing.
One thing
I want to
do is
help
educators
themselves,
so I've
got this
thing called
the Guild
of Educators
because I
always wanted
to Guild,
and it's
got a
whole lot
of people
in there
who are,
like,
it's a
free
community,
come and
join,
it's a
bunch
of
education
nerds
who
talk
about
education
with
each
other,
it's
a
support
structure
because I
think
educators
need
support
structures
and it's
a place
to share
learnings
and share
resources
and opportunities
and things
like that.
So,
it's still
very new,
but that's
one part
of it.
I want to
offer teacher
training and
things like
that.
just like
we have
junior
developers,
people got
to start
somewhere
with
teaching
and
online
is
different,
all that.
Yeah,
yeah,
and it's
hard because
there aren't
really good
resources for
tech educators.
If you dig
into the
literature on
how learning
works and
how teaching
works,
it's all
either very
academic,
and so it's
a little bit
hard to
pass,
it's
just not
packaged well
for the
people who
need it,
or it's
packaged in
the wrong
way.
So,
I came across
a code school
recently who,
I was like,
how do you
handle your
teacher training?
And they're
like,
we outsource
it to these
guys.
And they
showed me
this other
organization
that does
teacher training
and it's
like,
I dug
through their
courses and
one of their
selling points
was like,
our teacher
training courses
are so
versatile that
they can be
used for
florists
and
personal
trainers.
I was like,
yeah,
maybe not
appropriate for
what we're up
to here.
But that's
what people
are relying
on.
That's like
the best
that the
industry has
to offer.
So,
I think
there's a
big hole
in like
the education
space and
I want to
work to
fill that.
So,
that's
part of
what I'm
doing and
the other
part is
offering
technical
training.
And this
is partially
because
you've
got to
practice
the craft
partially
because
I want
to
create
opportunities
for
educators
to
get
good
partially
because
I
really
like
teaching
this
stuff.
So,
there's all
different
reasons
why I'm
teaching.
So,
right now I'm
building out
a bunch
of small
workshops
that cover
different
skills and
are fairly
standalone.
and those
are Lego
blocks that
will combine
into something
much bigger
in the future.
But for
now,
the first
workshop that
I have on
offer is
all about
Django and
HTMX.
Oh, yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
So, it's
pretty exciting.
So, it
talks about the
stack that we
just spoke
about.
We didn't
mention
Tailwind,
but Tailwind
is great
as well.
It means
that I can
make front
ends that
look reasonable.
That's right.
You said
you had
used
Material UI
previously
to make
it good.
And Tailwind
is what
used in
the new
version?
Yeah.
Excellent.
I'm really
enjoying
Tailwind.
Yeah.
So, the
idea with
this little
workshop,
I ran
it as
part of
DjangoCon
US recently
and it was
super cool.
I got,
I don't know,
there were way
too many people
there,
which was
great.
That's a
good problem.
It's a
very good
problem.
It's a
good problem
to solve.
It's like,
whoa,
all of you.
So, that
was super
cool and
went really
well.
The basic
idea is that
I want to
show how
to build
a CRUD
application
using the
stack of
tools in
a way that
sets people
up to be
able to
build their
own stuff.
And part
of the
workshop is,
in fact,
taking these
tools and
building your
own thing.
for people
who are
early on
their career,
they can
get the
starts of
decent
portfolio
projects out
of it.
People
built all
sorts of
interesting
things.
So,
the one
person
built their
own personal
learner management
system for
their own
learning,
which was
really
lovely.
Somebody
built a
music store.
Somebody
else built
a,
what was
it,
like a
chore
manager for
their family
so that they
don't fight
so much.
it was
all with
Django,
HTML,
and Alpine
JS.
And the
other thing
that's cool
about this
is it's a
CRUD
application.
I'm teaching
people the
bits and
pieces that
build a CRUD
app.
And most
of the
internet is
CRUD
applications.
For the
audience,
if anybody
hasn't heard
of CRUD,
it's create,
read,
update,
delete.
That's most
of what you
need to do
on the
internet.
And so,
if you get
the patterns
down for
like a
simple CRUD
app,
then you
can do
some pretty
hardcore
things with
it.
So,
yeah,
this is,
so it's
covering
that.
The
workshop
is
small,
so it's
like I'm
keeping
things very,
very small
intentionally
because I
believe in
the power
of teachers
and I
want to
make sure
that
everybody
gets
attention
and gets
the support
that they
need.
And also
because
the people
who tend
to come
to these
kinds
of
things
have
different
backgrounds.
So,
some people
need help
here,
some people
need help
there,
and so
you need
to keep
a good
ratio of
teachers to
students.
So,
yeah,
expert-led,
high support,
small group,
all of that
good stuff.
I'm quite excited.
That's very cool.
I'll link to this
workshop in the
show notes if you
want to check it
out.
and it's
out of time,
but it's
remote,
so people can
attend from
wherever,
right?
You don't
have to be
near you.
Yeah,
so you don't
need to be
in South
Africa.
In fact,
I made it
in U.S.
Eastern time
because,
strangely enough,
most of the
people who
read my blog
are in the
U.S.
So,
it's U.S.
and South
Africa,
and it
shifts and
changes around.
part of the
reason I'm
marketing it
to the U.S.
is because I
want to be able
to fund
training Africans,
and,
like,
there just
isn't as much
money on the
side of the
world.
So,
yeah,
I want to be
able to
make doing
good in the
tech education
space into
something that's
financially
sustainable.
So,
that's why
the U.S.,
and that is
why it's
priced in
dollars.
Yeah.
So,
you guys
can have
a discount
code,
talkpython,
talk underscore
python.
I think that
was the one I
said.
Yeah,
I'll put it
in show notes.
People can
find it there.
Awesome.
So,
you'll get
10% off,
and then I
also want to
give,
like,
another 10%
to something.
So,
Foxley
wanted me to
give 10%
from their
discount code
to the
DSF.
So,
that's another
code that's
out there.
So,
that's fantastic.
I've definitely
benefited a lot
from the
DSF,
so that's
really,
really cool.
So,
since this is
your podcast,
should the
further 10%
go to the
DSF or
PSF or
the Django
Con Africa
event?
Oh,
my goodness.
I vote
Django
Con Africa.
Fantastic.
I was hoping
that you'd say
that.
Yeah,
I love Django
Con Africa.
It's so
freaking cool.
speaking of
conference
and talks
and stuff,
Kim out
in the
audience
says,
in a few
weeks,
a really
good talk
Sina gave
at South
Africa
PyCon.
A few
weeks ago,
it should be
online.
Power to
the people
who teach
to code.
Yes,
that's the
longest title
I've had
for a talk
ever.
Thanks,
Kim.
Yeah,
so I did
that talk
at PyCon
South
Africa,
and I
also did
it,
I did
a longer
version of
it at
Django
Con US
as a
keynote,
so I was
super,
super happy
that I got
that opportunity.
It's so
cool.
But yeah,
it just
talks about
kind of
how I
think about
teaching
and how
I,
so it's
how I
think about
teaching
and the
mechanisms
that we
set up,
so like
how does
mastery-based
learning work
and how
do you
actually
get,
how do
you
engineer
an
education
system
so that
it sets
people up
for success
and not
like either
frustration
or boredom
like,
because there's
a lot of
things that
are weird
about the
traditional
systems.
Yeah,
so it talks
about that,
but then it
also shares
a bunch
of lessons
for individual
educators on
the ground.
So that
thing that I
was talking
about earlier
about how
we as
educators
in the
system
were getting
like a ton
of feedback
about our
own,
the quality
of our
work,
that gave
us space
to figure
out a lot
of hard-hitting
things.
So it's
kind of the
80-20 of
what teachers
or would-be
teachers should
focus on.
And I think
it's powerful
because a lot
of, like,
everybody teaches.
I mean,
you teach,
people teach
new team
members,
like,
there's a lot
of volunteer
teachers as
well,
which is great.
I think
doing this
kind of
presentation,
this kind
of teaching
is a
super cheat
code for
leveling up
your own
skills.
Yeah,
definitely.
There's this
thing called
protg effect,
which is a
well-studied
thing.
So when
people say
teaching is a
great way to
learn,
they're not
just being
squishy.
Like,
it's legit.
It's really,
really legit.
and there
are a lot
of mechanisms
behind it.
It's like,
one of the
simple ones
is that
teaching is
spaced repetition
and recall,
and that helps
you remember
your stuff.
Another one
is, like,
people will
ask you weird
questions that
you wouldn't
expect,
and so you
look at your
own knowledge
from a
different
direction,
and you
build better
mental
frameworks,
or more
robust
mental
frameworks.
Like,
some people
are good
at building
mental
frameworks,
and some
people aren't
as good,
and a
good way
to, like,
get a
person to
build good
mental
frameworks
is to
ask them
weird,
like,
left-side
questions
about the
stuff they
know,
and get
them to
look at
things from
different
angles,
so you
get that
from the
people you're
teaching.
It's,
yeah,
it's a
really,
beautiful
thing.
Yeah,
it really
is.
It definitely
rounds out
your
knowledge,
and makes
you think
deeply about
some of
these ideas
that you
just
maybe
glossed
over.
Yeah,
yeah,
well,
I think
this is
probably a
good place
to leave it.
Let's,
I want to
give out
one more
resource
real quick
for people
is just
awesome
HTMX
over on
GitHub.
I don't
know if
you've
poked
around
this,
but
it's
got
many,
many
examples
of tools
and libraries
for
HTMX
in Python,
but also
in a ton
of other
languages.
so
like
apparently
there's
a
Flask
HTMX
Tailwind
one
and
for
sockets
or maybe
HTMX
over web
sockets.
I don't
know.
These
all look
pretty
cool,
so
people
can
check
them
out.
But
yeah.
Yeah,
fantastic.
And I
definitely
want to
recommend
people
check
out
your
essay
and
yeah,
they
could
take
these
ideas
and
run
with
them.
Yeah.
Cool.
Well,
Gina,
thanks
for being
on the
show.
It's
been
great to
talk to
you.
Yeah,
it's
been
great to
talk to
you,
too.
This
was a
lot of
fun.
It
was.
Bye,
all.
Cheers.
Thank you.